>> Steve Kinney: Someone unskipped these
tests, I have not done the work yet,
I'm gonna unskip them and
watch the world burn.
>> Steve Kinney: Just verify
that that in fact happens.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
at a run but a crash.
>> Steve Kinney: This
is never a good sign.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Steve Kinney: Yep,
we have two things that we
might consider doing, right?
Is we can go into that tokenize.
You can add a cursor++ at
the bottom of the while loop.
Also what we might want to happen is if we
come across something we don't know about,
we might wanna just throw an error,
right, and
bust ourself out of that loop that way,
right?
So we do something like,
>> Steve Kinney: You can say,
>> Steve Kinney: Character is not valid,
or something along those lines, right?
Cuz it's probably, at that point,
if it has fallen through all the things we
know to check for it is probably something
that we can't parse later as well.
So we might as well kinda
throw there early on.
There's lots of things that we can and
should do, right?
When we get to syntactic analysis,
I believe it was a pretty common coding
test which is check to make sure
you have as many closing braces
as you have opening ones, right?
Stuff like that we're gonna skip but
that's also stuff that you
should totally consider doing.
All right, so now it blew up.
Which is fine cuz I unskipped the test but
they kinda fell through.
So yeah,
you can either cursor plus plus and
just deal with the fact
that the test will fail.
Or we can throw it there and
which is probably getting more
safer if we make mistakes later.
So I'm gonna keep the throwing in there
cuz I think it's probably the right
thing to do.
But yeah, we got to see what it feels
like when you don't end that loop.
All right, super cool.
So this is gonna be
pretty straightforward.
If we look at the test, there's a type
number and a type of name, right?
Because strings will have quotes but
names are kinda like function names or
variable names or stuff along those lines.
We can go ahead and
say if number is a nice helper,
we saw it before, it's great.
If is number for the character, right?
What we'll do is we'll take,
let me grab this.
>> Steve Kinney: Type number and
then we do need to parse in the numbers or
you can do the little plus sign,
whatever makes you happier.
And you can put a ten if you want.
And then for the,
>> Steve Kinney: If it's
a letter,
>> Steve Kinney: What
we'll do is we'll paste this in again.
We'll say name, character,
cursor, continue.
This should pass my test.
Right, all right, we are half way there.
So we've got that in place.
>> Steve Kinney: Let me see,
we might do the skip,
let me check up the texts really quick.
So it's got the single number,
let me go ahead,
I also did the letters as well,
so we can undo that one.
We're gonna see a problem with this
next one, which is not surprising.
All right, so let's look at our
multi-digit numbers, right?
We wrote the code, we can we have a sense
of what's about to happen here, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: A student online commented
that you could do MPX just dash dash watch
and then tokenize.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
my problem is if I am hitting save and
I forget to iterate the loop or
something like that,
I'm going to basically lock
everything up in a very sad place.
So I'm mostly doing it cuz if that
happens and my fan starts spinning and
all that fun stuff.
But yeah, I thought about that.
I tried that, early on Ted Price [LAUGH].
Right, if you don't make mistakes,
go for it.
If you are both talking and
coding at the same time, not great.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Good to know.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
Cool, so this fails and for
a reason it's not super surprising, right?
Instead of getting 22 or 11 and 22 we're
getting one, one, two and two, all right?
Because we don't have
the ability to look ahead and
see, okay, is there more to this number or
not, right?
So we're breaking up and
we're seeing each one of those.
So what we need to do is saying, okay,
if we come across a number, keep looking.
Look ahead, is the next one a number?
Cool, it's part of the same number.
It's not a number?
Right, okay, neat, right?
We can do something else with it, right?
But we wanna make sure that we
kinda are looking ahead and
seeing what's going on next.
So we'll go ahead and
I will implement that.
So we do it for numbers.
And so what I need to do is I'll
start with the one that I got, right?
So I'm gonna start with a new number.
And right now it's still a string, so
this is great cuz I can effectively use
the fact that I can add
the strings really easily.
I can say number is the first character
I came across cuz we know it's a number,
all right?
And then we're gonna say while is number,
I'll look at the next one.
So input, and this is where
we're gonna iterate that cursor.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, look at, and
we have white space breaking
stuff theoretically,
there are a lot of little edge cases,
to our syntax that if we wanted to
spend the entire day writing in lexer,
we could totally cover every
last one of the edge cases.
And you would be bored
out of your mind.
We're gonna assume that the number
is over cuz it has had whitespace.
So that's when we iterated
the cursor anyway.
The ++ as a prefix says,
bump the number and then use it, right?
So this will get us
the next one in this case.
So if the next one is also a number
we'll kinda pop it on there.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, it's not
the characters that got set up there.
And so we'll keep going until we come
across something that's not a number which
we assume is gonna be some white space.
And then we will go ahead and
take this new number that we have,
and push that on instead.
And cool, we shouldn't need to iterate
cursor at this point, famous last words.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
someone's passing.
So I did numbers,
you're on the hook for doing strings,
just to get the muscle memory in place.
And then we're gonna skipping,
it should ignore white space,
it's just gonna be with other characters.
And then we ignored all white space, we
should be able to get that one for free.
And then we'll just quickly do strings and
we'll be done with our
lecture at that point.